docs/Playing the Game/Challenges/Challenges.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Challenges
parent: Playing the Game
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---


# Challenges

Occasionally, Adventurers face tasks that are difficult for them to complete. These tasks are called **Challenges**.

---

<img src="https://plerpsandplerps.github.io/Sprouting-Tales/artwork/Art_Challenge.png" alt="Adventurers face a Challenge">

---

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

---

## Resolving a Challenge

To resolve a Challenge the Adventurers are facing:
1. The Guide chooses the Difficulty and sets that many Discoveries in a face down pile for the Challenge. 
2. Any Player whose Adventurer is facing the Challenge may put a Trait from their Hand on top of their Branches or their Roots.
2. Any Player whose Adventurer is facing the Challenge may decide to increase the Difficulty of the Challenge by one to Discover. If they do, that Player adds another face down Discovery to the face down pile for the Challenge.
3. The Guide turns all Discoveries in the face down pile face up.
4. Calculate an Adventurer's Score. 
6. Any Player controlling an Adventurer facing the Challenge may Kindle any number of cards from their Branches. The Player turns one Discovery back face down for each card the Player kindled.
7. Calculate the Challenge's Score.
8. If the Adventurer's Score is greater than or equal to the Challenge Score, the Adventurer is successful in overcoming the Challenge. Otherwise, the Adventurer fails to overcome the Challenge. 
9. Resolve any remaining Boons or Bane Discoveries. 

## Difficulty

Challenges have a **Difficulty**, a number picked by the Guide between one and ten. Once the Guide chooses the Difficulty, the Guide places that many Discoveries in a face down pile. 

## Adventurer Score

An **Adventurer's Score** is equal to the score of the top card of their Player's Branches plus the top card of their Player's Roots plus the score of all other cards they have in Play. 

## Challenge Score

A **Challenge's Score** is equal to the sum of the score of all face up Discoveries.

## Discover

When a Player whose Adventurer is facing a Challenge decides to **Discover,** they increase the Difficulty of the Challenge to gain the opportunity to learn something about the environment. 

After completing the eight steps above, any Player who decided to Discover may choose one Discovery from the Discoveries in the Challenge. That Player places the chosen Discovery face up on top of their Branches. 

If multiple Players decided to Discover, then deal Order Cards to decide the order in which Players pick Discoveries to add to their Branches. 

## Special Discoveries

### Boons

When a **Boon Discovery** appears in a Challenge, the Adventurers facing the Challenge gain a minor benefit. Anybody in the group can suggest a minor benefit; however, the Guide has final say in what minor benefit the group receives. This card cannot be added to a Player's Branches during a Discovery. 

Some example minor benefits include:
- Lose a Doubt or Injury; 
- The Challenge takes less time to overcome;
- The cover opponents are hiding behind is destroyed; or
- The Adventurers gain a Supply. 

### Banes

When a **Bane Discovery** appears in a Challenge, the Adventurers facing the Challenge encounter a minor complication. Anybody in the group can propose a minor complication; however, the Guide has final say in what minor complication the group receives. This card cannot be added to a Player's Branches during a Discovery. 

Some example minor complications include: 
- Drawing a Doubt or Injury;
- Nearby characters are alerted to your presence;
- The cover the Adventurers are hiding behind is destroyed; or
- The Adventurers return a Supply. 

<div markdown="1">
More Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }
</div>

<!-- 

## Example Challenge Resolution

-->

Commit message:

faceup facedown to face-up face-down and deck/discard from roots/branches

docs/Playing the Game/Challenges/Challenges.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Challenges
parent: Playing the Game
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---


# Challenges

Occasionally, Adventurers face tasks that are difficult for them to complete. These tasks are called **Challenges**.

---

<img src="https://plerpsandplerps.github.io/Sprouting-Tales/artwork/Art_Challenge.png" alt="Adventurers face a Challenge">

---

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

---

## Resolving a Challenge

To resolve a Challenge the Adventurers are facing:
1. The Guide chooses the Difficulty and sets that many Discoveries in a face-down pile for the Challenge. 
2. Any Player whose Adventurer is facing the Challenge may put a Trait from their Hand on top of their Discard or their Deck.
2. Any Player whose Adventurer is facing the Challenge may decide to increase the Difficulty of the Challenge by one to Discover. If they do, that Player adds another face-down Discovery to the face-down pile for the Challenge.
3. The Guide turns all Discoveries in the face-down pile face-up.
4. Calculate an Adventurer's Score. 
6. Any Player controlling an Adventurer facing the Challenge may Kindle any number of cards from their Discard. The Player turns one Discovery back face-down for each card the Player kindled.
7. Calculate the Challenge's Score.
8. If the Adventurer's Score is greater than or equal to the Challenge Score, the Adventurer is successful in overcoming the Challenge. Otherwise, the Adventurer fails to overcome the Challenge. 
9. Resolve any remaining Boons or Bane Discoveries. 

## Difficulty

Challenges have a **Difficulty**, a number picked by the Guide between one and ten. Once the Guide chooses the Difficulty, the Guide places that many Discoveries in a face-down pile. 

## Adventurer Score

An **Adventurer's Score** is equal to the score of the top card of their Player's Discard plus the top card of their Player's Deck plus the score of all other cards they have in Play. 

## Challenge Score

A **Challenge's Score** is equal to the sum of the score of all face-up Discoveries.

## Discover

When a Player whose Adventurer is facing a Challenge decides to **Discover,** they increase the Difficulty of the Challenge to gain the opportunity to learn something about the environment. 

After completing the eight steps above, any Player who decided to Discover may choose one Discovery from the Discoveries in the Challenge. That Player places the chosen Discovery face-up on top of their Discard. 

If multiple Players decided to Discover, then deal Order Cards to decide the order in which Players pick Discoveries to add to their Discard. 

## Special Discoveries

### Boons

When a **Boon Discovery** appears in a Challenge, the Adventurers facing the Challenge gain a minor benefit. Anybody in the group can suggest a minor benefit; however, the Guide has final say in what minor benefit the group receives. This card cannot be added to a Player's Discard during a Discovery. 

Some example minor benefits include:
- Lose a Doubt or Injury; 
- The Challenge takes less time to overcome;
- The cover opponents are hiding behind is destroyed; or
- The Adventurers gain a Supply. 

### Banes

When a **Bane Discovery** appears in a Challenge, the Adventurers facing the Challenge encounter a minor complication. Anybody in the group can propose a minor complication; however, the Guide has final say in what minor complication the group receives. This card cannot be added to a Player's Discard during a Discovery. 

Some example minor complications include: 
- Drawing a Doubt or Injury;
- Nearby characters are alerted to your presence;
- The cover the Adventurers are hiding behind is destroyed; or
- The Adventurers return a Supply. 

<div markdown="1">
More Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }
</div>

<!-- 

## Example Challenge Resolution

-->
